https://issues.redhat.com/browse/ACM-7816 Add CIM CLI docs (#5683)
open-cluster-management/rhacm-docs: clusters/cluster_lifecycle/cim_create_cli.adoc

[#create-host-inventory-cli]
= Creating a host inventory by using the command line interface

You can create a host inventory (infrastructure environment) by using the command line interface. Use the command line interace instead of the console for advanced configuration or automated deployment. See the following information to learn more:

- <<create-host-inventory-prereqs-cli,Prerequisites>>

> - <<create-host-inventory-cli,Creating a host inventory>>

Reviewer: are you referring to `create-host-inventory-cli-steps`?

Author: Good catch, fixing it

- <<additional-resources-host-inv-cli,Additional resources>>

[#create-host-inventory-prereqs-cli]
== Prerequisites

- You have enabled the central infrastructure management service.

[#create-host-inventory-cli-steps]
== Creating a host inventory

Complete the following steps to create a host inventory (infrastructure environment) by using the command line interface:

. Log in to your hub cluster by running the following command:
+
----
oc login
----

. Create a namespace for your resource.

.. Create the `namespace.yaml` file and add the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: <your_namespace> <1>
----
+

> <1> Use the same name for your namespace and your infrastructure environment to be able to monitor your inventory in the console.

Reviewer: it's optional, we don't require it anywhere

Reviewer 2: It is required by the console (UI) because that is how the console creates the resources.  Otherwise you won't be able to use the console for this InfraEnv.

Reviewer 3: please eliminate _to be able_. It's just _environment to monitor your inventory in the console_.

Author: Fixed

..  Apply the YAML content by running the following command:
+
----
oc apply -f namespace.yaml
----

. Create a `Secret` custom resource containing your {ocp-short} link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret[pull secret].

.. Create the `pull-secret.yaml` file and add the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
type: kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
metadata:
  name: pull-secret
  namespace: <your_namespace> 
stringData:
  .dockerconfigjson: <your_pull_secret> <1>
----
+
<1> Add your pull secret.

.. Apply the YAML content by running the following command:
+
----
oc apply -f pull-secret.yaml
----

. Create the infrastructure environment.

.. Create the `infra-env.yaml` file and add the following content. Replace values where needed:
+
*Note*: The only required property in the `spec` field is `pullSecretRef`.
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: agent-install.openshift.io/v1beta1
kind: InfraEnv
metadata:
  name: myinfraenv
  namespace: <your_namespace>
spec:
  proxy: <1>

>     httpProxy: <http://user:password@ipaddr:port> <2>

Reviewer 2: You missed httpsProxy
```suggestion
    httpProxy: <http://user:password@ipaddr:port> <2>
    httpsProxy: <http://user:password@ipaddr:port> <3>
```

Author: I thought https schemes were not supported at the moment?

Reviewer 2: Correct, that means you can't set the URL to "http**s**://user:password...", but the httpsProxy property is supported.  I know it's a bit confusing.

Author: I see, I'll add it in that case, thanks for explaining.

  ignitionConfigOverride: '{"ignition": {"version": "3.1.0"}, …}' <10>
  cpuArchitecture: x86_64 <11>
  ipxeScriptType: DiscoveryImageAlways <12>
  kernelArguments: <13>
    - operation: append
      value: audit=0
  additionalTrustBundle: <bundle> <14>
  osImageVersion: <version> <15>
----
+
<1> Defines the proxy settings for agents and clusters that use the `InfraEnv` resource. If you do not set the `proxy` value, agents are not configured to use a proxy.
<2> The URL of the proxy for HTTP requests.  The URL must start with `http`. HTTPS is not supported.
<3> A list of domains and CIDRs separated by commas that you do not want to use the proxy with.
<4> A list of NTP sources (hostname or IP) to add to all hosts. They are added to NTP sources that are configured by using other options, such as DHCP.
<5> SSH public keys that will be added to all hosts for use in debugging during the discovery phase (when the host boots the Discovery Image).
<6> The name of the Kubernetes secret containing your pull secret.
<7> Labels that are automatically added to the `Agent` resources representing the hosts that are discovered with your `InfraEnv`. Make sure to add your key and value.

> <8> Consolidates advanced network configuration such as static IPs, bridges, and bonds for the hosts. Each host network configuration is specified in an `NMStateConfig` resource with labels you choose. The `nmStateConfigLabelSelector` property is a Kubernetes label selector that matches the labels you choose. The network configuration for all `NMStateConfig` labels that match this label selector are included in the Discovery Image.  When you boot, each host compares each configuration to its network interfaces and applies the appropriate configuration. See link to section _Configuring advanced networking for a host inventory_. to learn more about advanced network configuration.

Reviewer 2: Sorry, my mistake - we no longer require each host to have a separate NMStateConfig.

```suggestion
<8> Consolidates advanced network configuration such as static IPs, bridges, and bonds for the hosts. The host network configuration is specified in one or more `NMStateConfig` resources with labels you choose. The `nmStateConfigLabelSelector` property is a Kubernetes label selector that matches your chosen labels. The network configuration for all `NMStateConfig` labels that match this label selector is included in the Discovery Image.  When you boot, each host compares each configuration to its network interfaces and applies the appropriate configuration. See link to section _Configuring advanced networking for a host inventory_. to learn more about advanced network configuration.
```

<9> References an existing `ClusterDeployment` resource that describes a standalone on-premises cluster. Not set by default. If `clusterRef` is not set, the hosts can be bound to one or more clusters at a later time. The hosts can also be removed from one cluster and added to another.  However, if clusterRef is set, all hosts discovered with this InfraEnv will be automatically bound to the specified cluster.  If the cluster has not yet been installed, all discovered hosts will be part of its installation. If the cluster has already been installed, all discovered hosts will be added.

> <10> Modifies the ignition configuration of the Red Hat CoreOS live image, such as adding files. Make sure to only use `ignitionConfigOverride` if you need it. Must use version 3.1.0, regardless of the cluster version.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<10> Modifies the ignition configuration of the Red Hat CoreOS live image, such as adding files. Make sure to only use `ignitionConfigOverride` if you need it. Must use ignition version 3.1.0, regardless of the cluster version.
```

<11> Choose one of the following supported CPU architectures: x86_64, aarch64, ppc64le, or s390x. The default value is x86_64.
<12> Causes the image service to always serve the iPXE script when set to the default value of `DiscoveryImageAlways` and when you are using iPXE to boot. As a result, the host boots from the network discovery image. Setting the value to `BootOrderControl` causes the image service to determine when to return the iPXE script, depending on the host state, which causes the host to boot from the disk when the host is provisioned and is part of a cluster.
<13> Allows modifying the kernel arguments for when the Discovery Image boots. Possible values for `operation` are `append`, `replace`, or `delete`.
<14> A PEM-encoded X.509 certificate bundle, usually needed if the hosts are in a network with a re-encrypting man-in-the-middle (MITM) proxy, or if the hosts need to trust certificates for other purposes, such as container image registries. Hosts discovered by your `InfraEnv` trust the certificates in this bundle. Clusters created from the hosts discovered by your `InfraEnv` also trust the certificates in this bundle.

> <15> The version of the Red Hat CoreOS image to use for your `InfraEnv`. Make sure the version refers to the OS image specified in the `AgentServiceConfig`, and that `OSImageVersion` matches an {ocp-short} version in the OS images list. You cannot specify `OSImageVersion` and `ClusterRef` at the same time. See _Enabling the central infrastructure management service for more information_.

Reviewer: AgentServiceConfig.spec.osImages

.. Apply the YAML content by running the following command:
+
----
oc apply -f infra-env.yaml
----

Your host inventory is created. To verify its status, run the following command:

----

> oc describe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
oc describe infraenv myinfraenv -n <your_namespace>
```

----

> See the following list of notable properties:

Reviewer: @nmagnezi please correct me if i'm wrong but if i remember correctly if the infra env has a cluster reference it will not be created until the cluster exists.

Reviewer 2: You mean that you apply the InfraEnv yaml but it doesn't show up in 'oc describe'?  If it isn't created then we won't reconcile

Reviewer 4: @filanov As a custom resource? IIRC, I think it will get created but will probably reflect some error in status.
meaning you will see it in `oc describe`

Reviewer 2: If it can't find the clusterRef then it will be reflected in the conditions.

[#create-host-inventory-cli]
= Creating a host inventory by using the command line interface

You can create a host inventory (infrastructure environment) to discover physical or virtual machines that you can install your {ocp-short} clusters on. Use the command line interface instead of the console for automated deployments or for the following advanced configuration options:

- Automatically bind discovered hosts to an existing cluster definition
- Override the ignition configuration of the Discovery Image
- Control the iPXE behavior
- Modify kernel arguments for the Discovery Image
- Pass additional certificates that you want the host to trust during the discovery phase
- Select a Red Hat CoreOS version to boot for testing that is not the default option of the newest version

See the following information to learn how to create a host inventory by using the command line interface:

- <<create-host-inventory-prereqs-cli,Prerequisites>>
- <<create-host-inventory-cli-steps,Creating a host inventory>>

[#create-host-inventory-prereqs-cli]

> == Prerequisites

Reviewer 5: remove the "s" since there is only one requirement.

> - Enable the central infrastructure management service.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- You must enable the central infrastructure management service. See [add link reference]
```

<14> Allows modifying the kernel arguments for when the Discovery Image boots. Possible values for `operation` are `append`, `replace`, or `delete`.
<15> A PEM-encoded X.509 certificate bundle, usually needed if the hosts are in a network with a re-encrypting man-in-the-middle (MITM) proxy, or if the hosts need to trust certificates for other purposes, such as container image registries. Hosts discovered by your `InfraEnv` trust the certificates in this bundle. Clusters created from the hosts discovered by your `InfraEnv` also trust the certificates in this bundle.
<16> The Red Hat CoreOS image version to use for your `InfraEnv`. Make sure the version refers to the OS image specified in the `AgentServiceConfig.spec.osImages`, and that `OSImageVersion` matches an {ocp-short} version in the OS images list. You cannot specify `OSImageVersion` and `ClusterRef` at the same time. See _Enabling the central infrastructure management service_ for more information.

.. Apply the YAML content by running the following command:
+
----
oc apply -f infra-env.yaml
----

> Your host inventory is created. To verify the status, run the following command:

Reviewer 5: I would add this as a step

```suggestion
.. To verify that your host inventory is created, check the status with the following command:
```

----
oc describe infraenv myinfraenv -n <your_namespace>
----

See the following list of notable properties:

- `conditions`: The standard Kubernetes conditions indicating if the image was created succesfully.
- `isoDownloadURL`: The URL to download the Discovery Image.
- `createdTime`: The time at which the image was last created. If you modify the `InfraEnv`, make sure that the timestamp has been updated before downloading a new image.

*Note:* If you modify the `InfraEnv` resource, make sure that the `InfraEnv` has created a new Discovery Image by looking at the `createdTime` property. If you already booted hosts, boot them again with the latest Discovery Image.

You can continue by configuring static networking, if required, and begin adding hosts to your infrastructure environment.

[#additional-resources-host-inv-cli]
== Additional resources

> - See xref:cim_enable.adoc#enable-cim[Enabling the central infrastructure management service].

Reviewer 5: The link works according to the link check too, but suggesting to update link syntax. 
```suggestion
- See xref:../cluster_lifecycle/cim_enable.adoc#enable-cim[Enabling the central infrastructure management service].
```

> - See xref:cim_adv_config.adoc#cim-configure-networking[Configuring advanced networking for a host inventory].

Reviewer 5: Broken link
```suggestion
- See xref:../cluster_lifecycle/cim_adv_config.adoc#cim-configure-networking[Configuring advanced networking for a host inventory].
```

[#create-host-inventory-cli]
= Creating a host inventory by using the command line interface

> You can create a host inventory (infrastructure environment) to discover physical or virtual machines that form your {ocp-short} clusters. Use the command line interface instead of the console for automated deployment or for the following advanced configuration options:

Reviewer 3: that form your clusters...I have not seen us describe anything like this. 

Create? Build?

For _an_ automated deployment?

Reviewer 2: Regarding "form": Maybe a better way to word it is "physical or virtual machines that make up your OCP clusters".  I intended to say that these machines are building blocks for clusters that they will create later.

Regarding automated deployment: I think it would be better to write "automated deployments" (plural)

Author: How does "that allow you to create your ocp clusters" sound?

Reviewer 2: Less good, in my opinion.  My goal for this sentence is to explain what this inventory is used for upfront.  Maybe we can say it is an inventory of hosts that will later become OpenShift nodes.  Or hosts that they will install OpenShift on.  I'm not sure which option is best.

Author: Maybe:

You can create a host inventory (infrastructure environment) to discover physical or virtual machines that you can install your {ocp-short} clusters on.

Is that OK?

Reviewer 2: Works for me

- Automatically bind discovered hosts to an existing cluster definition.
- Override the ignition configuration of the Discovery Image.
- Control the iPXE behavior.
- Modify kernel arguments for the Discovery Image.
- Pass additional certificates that you want the host to trust during the discovery phase.
- Select a Red Hat CoreOS version to boot for testing that is not the default option of the newest version.

> 

Reviewer 3: Since this list consists of sentence fragments and not complete sentences, I think we should remove the punctuation.

Author: Fixed

See the following information to learn how to create a host inventory by using the command line interface:

- <<create-host-inventory-prereqs-cli,Prerequisites>>
- <<create-host-inventory-cli-steps,Creating a host inventory>>
- <<additional-resources-host-inv-cli,Additional resources>>

> 

Reviewer 3: I thought we were not adding this, we met and discussed not adding additional resources to this, but we can revisit.

Author: I might have missed that meeting, what was the discussion about? Are we returning to using inline links?

Reviewer 5: Yea, we agreed to not list Additional resources, however we are still documenting Additional resources . I also recommend that you remove the inline links for the sections. 

Remove: - <<create-host-inventory-prereqs-cli,Prerequisites>>
- <<create-host-inventory-cli-steps,Creating a host inventory>>

[#create-host-inventory-prereqs-cli]
== Prerequisites

> - You have enabled the central infrastructure management service.

Reviewer 3: Enable the Central Infrastructure Management service. (We stay away from past tense most of the time, especially in prereqs.)

[#create-host-inventory-cli-steps]
== Creating a host inventory

Complete the following steps to create a host inventory (infrastructure environment) by using the command line interface:

. Log in to your hub cluster by running the following command:
+
----
oc login
----

. Create a namespace for your resource.

.. Create the `namespace.yaml` file and add the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Namespace
metadata:
  name: <your_namespace> <1>
----
+
<1> Use the same name for your namespace and your infrastructure environment to be able to monitor your inventory in the console.

..  Apply the YAML content by running the following command:
+
----
oc apply -f namespace.yaml
----

. Create a `Secret` custom resource containing your {ocp-short} link:https://console.redhat.com/openshift/install/pull-secret[pull secret].

.. Create the `pull-secret.yaml` file and add the following content:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
type: kubernetes.io/dockerconfigjson
metadata:
  name: pull-secret
  namespace: <your_namespace> 
stringData:
  .dockerconfigjson: <your_pull_secret> <1>
----
+

> <1> Add your pull secret.

Reviewer 3: since we call at that variable, we should also for namespace (line 66)

Author: Done

.. Apply the YAML content by running the following command:
+
----
oc apply -f pull-secret.yaml
----

. Create the infrastructure environment.

.. Create the `infra-env.yaml` file and add the following content. Replace values where needed:
+
*Note*: The only required property in the `spec` field is `pullSecretRef`.

> +

Reviewer 3: we have a format issue here, likely due to the note. I will mess with it for a min.

Reviewer 3: The fix, put the note in the actual step as an independent clause with a comma. Format is fixed.

<16> The Red Hat CoreOS image version to use for your `InfraEnv`. Make sure the version refers to the OS image specified in the `AgentServiceConfig.spec.osImages`, and that `OSImageVersion` matches an {ocp-short} version in the OS images list. You cannot specify `OSImageVersion` and `ClusterRef` at the same time. See _Enabling the central infrastructure management service_ for more information.

.. Apply the YAML content by running the following command:
+
----
oc apply -f infra-env.yaml
----

Your host inventory is created. To verify the status, run the following command:

----
oc describe infraenv myinfraenv -n <your_namespace>
----

See the following list of notable properties:

- `conditions`: The standard Kubernetes conditions indicating if the image was created succesfully.
- `isoDownloadURL`: The URL to download the Discovery Image.
- `createdTime`: The time at which the image was last created. If you modify the `InfraEnv`, make sure that the timestamp has been updated before downloading a new image.

> *Note:* If you modify the `InfraEnv` resource, make sure that the `InfraEnv` has created a new Discovery Image by looking at the `createdTime` property.  If you already booted hosts, boot them again with the latest Discovery Image.

Reviewer 3: seems an extra space after property

Author: Good catch, fixed!

You can continue by configuring static networking, if required, and begin adding hosts to your infrastructure environment.

[#additional-resources-host-inv-cli]
== Additional resources

- See xref:cim_enable.adoc#enable-cim[Enabling the central infrastructure management service].
- See xref:cim_adv_config.adoc#cim-configure-networking[Configuring advanced networking for a host inventory].

> - Return to <<create-host-inventory-console,Creating a host inventory by using the console>>

Reviewer 3: I don't know why some of us are adding the line to return. I don't see this in other doc but we can revisit.

Author: We can discuss again, I think the idea is that with minimal inline links, the user might need to scroll down to additional resources to find the information they need, and then they likely want to return back to closer to the beginning of the topic where they left off.

But I don't mind removing this.
